README.md, before:

![Logo](admin/daikin.jpg)
# ioBroker.daikin

![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/daikin-installed.svg)
![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/daikin-stable.svg)
[![NPM version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.daikin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.daikin)

![Test and Release](https://github.com/Apollon77/iobroker.daikin/workflows/Test%20and%20Release/badge.svg)
[![Translation status](https://weblate.iobroker.net/widgets/adapters/-/daikin/svg-badge.svg)](https://weblate.iobroker.net/engage/adapters/?utm_source=widget)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.daikin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.daikin)

**This adapter uses Sentry libraries to automatically report exceptions and code errors to the developers.** For more details and for information how to disable the error reporting see [Sentry-Plugin Documentation](https://github.com/ioBroker/plugin-sentry#plugin-sentry)! Sentry reporting is used starting with js-controller 3.0.

This adapter connects to a Daikin Air Conditioner device and allows to control the device and to read values from it.
The Daikin Device needs to be equipped with a Daikin Wifi controller. Normally all wifi controllers should be supportedthat are supported by the Daikin App.

According to Daikin Support Documents the following devices should be compatible (at least):

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A41**:
FTXG20LV1BW, FTXG20LV1BS , FTXG25LV1BW, FTXG25LV1BS, FTXG35LV1BW, FTXG35LV1BS, FTXG50LV1BW, FTXG50LV1BS,
FTXJ20LV1BW, FTXJ20LV1BS, FTXJ25LV1BW, FTXJ25LV1BS, FTXJ35LV1BW, FTXJ35LV1BS, FTXJ50LV1BW, FTXJ50LV1BS ,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A42**:
FTXZ25NV1B, FTXZ35NV1B, FTXZ50NV1B, FTXS35K2V1B, FTXS35K3V1B, FTXS42K2V1B, FTXS42K3V1B, FTXS50K2V1B,
FTXS50K3V1B, FTXLS25K2V1B, FTXLS35K2V1B,FTXM35K3V1B, FTXM42K3V1B, FTXM50K3V1B, , FTXS60GV1B, FTXS71GV1B,
ATXS35K2V1B, ATXS35K3V1B, ATXS50K2V1B, ATXS50K3V1B, , FTX50GV1B, FTX60GV1B, FTX71GV1B, , FVXG25K2V1B,
FVXG35K2V1B, FVXG50K2V1B, , FVXS25FV1B, FVXS35FV1B, FVXS50FV1B, , FLXS25BAVMB, FLXS25BVMA, FLXS25BVMB,
FLXS35BAVMB, FLXS35BAVMB9, FLXS35BVMA, FLXS35BVMB, FLXS50BAVMB, FLXS50BVMA, FLXS50BVMB, FLXS60BAVMB,
FLXS60BVMA, FLXS60BVMB,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A43 (?)**:
CTXS15K2V1B, CTXS15K3V1B, FTXS20K2V1B, FTXS20K3V1B, FTXS25K2V1B, FTXS25K3V1B, CTXS35K2V1B, CTXS35K3V1B,
FTXM20K3V1B, FTXM25K3V1B, , ATXS20K2V1B, ATXS20K3V1B, ATXS25K2V1B, ATXS25K3V1B, , FTX20J2V1B, FTX25J2V1B,
FTX35J2V1B, FTX20J3V1B, FTX25J3V1B, FTX35J3V1B, , FTXL25J2V1B, FTXL35J2V1B, , FTX20KV1B, FTX25KV1B, FTX35KV1B,
FTX20GV1B, FTX25GV1B, FTX35GV1B, , ATX20J2V1B, ATX20J3V1B, ATX25J2V1B, ATX25J3V1B, ATX35J2V1B, ATX35J3V1B,
ATX20KV1B, ATX25KV1B, ATX35KV1B, , ATXL25J2V1B, ATXL35J2V1B,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A44 (?)**:
FTX50KV1B, FTX60KV1B

Note: For devices with-newer WLAN Adapter like **BRP069C4x** which can only be used by the Onecta App please use the [Daikin-CLoud](https://github.com/Apollon77/ioBroker.daikin-cloud) adapter instead.

## Description of parameters
### daikinIp
The IP of the Wifi controler from the Device

### pollingInterval
Interval in seconds to update the data from the device. Additionally values are updated on each change

## Description of the available instance objects/states
After the Adapter has connected to the Daikin Device a structure of objects are created:

* deviceInfo.* : General informations about the Daikin device, read-only
* control.* : Main controllable values from the Device like target temperature, mode and such, **read- and writeable**
* controlInfo.* : Additional control-informations from the Device, read-only
* modelInfo.* : Information about the Device itself and the supported features, read-only
* sensorInfo.* : Sensor data from the Device like the measured indoor and outdoor temperature

## Todo
* enhance testing: state checks and setState's
* check model info/supported features
* docs for webpage
* VIS widget

## Changelog

### __WORK IN PROGRESS__
* (Apollon77) Optimize unload handling

### 1.3.3 (2021-06-24)
* (Apollon77) Prevent crash case when no temperature was read out (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-D, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-M)

### 1.3.2 (2021-06-05)
* (Apollon77) Handle modes correctly where no temperature or humidity parameters are required

### 1.3.1 (2021-05-14)
* (Apollon77) Prepare for js-controller 3.3

### 1.3.0 (2021-01-14)
* (Apollon77) Prevent warnings in js-controller 3.2
* (Apollon77) Allow overwriting the name in Daikin channel object
* (Apollon77) Require at least js-controller 2.0

### 1.2.0 (2020-12-27)
* add compact mode

### 1.1.3 (2020-11-19)
* add experimental support for lpw parameter
* crash cases prevented (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-7)

### 1.1.2 (2020-08-06)
* crash cases prevented (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-2, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-3, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-4)

### 1.1.1 (2020-08-02)
* better handle case where configuration is missing (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-1)

### 1.1.0 (2020-07-21)
* Adjust Texts and translate
* create daikin.X ads device object and add one role
* Update dependencies

### 1.0.4 (2019-06-25)
* Daikin library updated, communication error handling optimized

### 1.0.3 (2019-02-xx)
* Daikin library updated, communication errors optimized

### 1.0.2 (2018-04-29)
* Daikin library updated

### 1.0.1 (2018-04-13)
* Fix Admin

### 1.0.0 (2018-01-1x)
* Admin3 readieness
* Support older Daikin-WLAN-Firmwares with special config flag

### 0.2.3 (2017-04-01)
* Add control.lastResult to see if a change was successfull

### 0.2.2
* reduce debug logging

### 0.2.0
* first finalized version

### 0.1.x
* development and first tests

## Disclaimer
**Daikin is a trademark of DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD. I am in no way endorsed by or affiliated with DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD., or any associated subsidiaries, logos or trademarks. This personal project is maintained in spare time.**

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Apollon77 <ingo@fischer-ka.de>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

* (Apollon77) Add Connection identifier for Admin and Device * switch to adapter-dev * general updates

README.md, after:

![Logo](admin/daikin.jpg)
# ioBroker.daikin

![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/daikin-installed.svg)
![Number of Installations](http://iobroker.live/badges/daikin-stable.svg)
[![NPM version](http://img.shields.io/npm/v/iobroker.daikin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.daikin)

![Test and Release](https://github.com/Apollon77/iobroker.daikin/workflows/Test%20and%20Release/badge.svg)
[![Translation status](https://weblate.iobroker.net/widgets/adapters/-/daikin/svg-badge.svg)](https://weblate.iobroker.net/engage/adapters/?utm_source=widget)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/iobroker.daikin.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iobroker.daikin)

**This adapter uses Sentry libraries to automatically report exceptions and code errors to the developers.** For more details and for information how to disable the error reporting see [Sentry-Plugin Documentation](https://github.com/ioBroker/plugin-sentry#plugin-sentry)! Sentry reporting is used starting with js-controller 3.0.

This adapter connects to a Daikin Air Conditioner device and allows to control the device and to read values from it.
The Daikin Device needs to be equipped with a Daikin Wifi controller. Normally all wifi controllers should be supportedthat are supported by the Daikin App.

According to Daikin Support Documents the following devices should be compatible (at least):

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A41**:
FTXG20LV1BW, FTXG20LV1BS , FTXG25LV1BW, FTXG25LV1BS, FTXG35LV1BW, FTXG35LV1BS, FTXG50LV1BW, FTXG50LV1BS,
FTXJ20LV1BW, FTXJ20LV1BS, FTXJ25LV1BW, FTXJ25LV1BS, FTXJ35LV1BW, FTXJ35LV1BS, FTXJ50LV1BW, FTXJ50LV1BS ,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A42**:
FTXZ25NV1B, FTXZ35NV1B, FTXZ50NV1B, FTXS35K2V1B, FTXS35K3V1B, FTXS42K2V1B, FTXS42K3V1B, FTXS50K2V1B,
FTXS50K3V1B, FTXLS25K2V1B, FTXLS35K2V1B,FTXM35K3V1B, FTXM42K3V1B, FTXM50K3V1B, , FTXS60GV1B, FTXS71GV1B,
ATXS35K2V1B, ATXS35K3V1B, ATXS50K2V1B, ATXS50K3V1B, , FTX50GV1B, FTX60GV1B, FTX71GV1B, , FVXG25K2V1B,
FVXG35K2V1B, FVXG50K2V1B, , FVXS25FV1B, FVXS35FV1B, FVXS50FV1B, , FLXS25BAVMB, FLXS25BVMA, FLXS25BVMB,
FLXS35BAVMB, FLXS35BAVMB9, FLXS35BVMA, FLXS35BVMB, FLXS50BAVMB, FLXS50BVMA, FLXS50BVMB, FLXS60BAVMB,
FLXS60BVMA, FLXS60BVMB,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A43 (?)**:
CTXS15K2V1B, CTXS15K3V1B, FTXS20K2V1B, FTXS20K3V1B, FTXS25K2V1B, FTXS25K3V1B, CTXS35K2V1B, CTXS35K3V1B,
FTXM20K3V1B, FTXM25K3V1B, , ATXS20K2V1B, ATXS20K3V1B, ATXS25K2V1B, ATXS25K3V1B, , FTX20J2V1B, FTX25J2V1B,
FTX35J2V1B, FTX20J3V1B, FTX25J3V1B, FTX35J3V1B, , FTXL25J2V1B, FTXL35J2V1B, , FTX20KV1B, FTX25KV1B, FTX35KV1B,
FTX20GV1B, FTX25GV1B, FTX35GV1B, , ATX20J2V1B, ATX20J3V1B, ATX25J2V1B, ATX25J3V1B, ATX35J2V1B, ATX35J3V1B,
ATX20KV1B, ATX25KV1B, ATX35KV1B, , ATXL25J2V1B, ATXL35J2V1B,

Compatible units in combination with **BRP069A44 (?)**:
FTX50KV1B, FTX60KV1B

Note: For devices with-newer WLAN Adapter like **BRP069C4x** which can only be used by the Onecta App please use the [Daikin-CLoud](https://github.com/Apollon77/ioBroker.daikin-cloud) adapter instead.

## Description of parameters
### daikinIp
The IP of the Wifi controler from the Device

### pollingInterval
Interval in seconds to update the data from the device. Additionally values are updated on each change

## Description of the available instance objects/states
After the Adapter has connected to the Daikin Device a structure of objects are created:

* deviceInfo.* : General informations about the Daikin device, read-only
* control.* : Main controllable values from the Device like target temperature, mode and such, **read- and writeable**
* controlInfo.* : Additional control-informations from the Device, read-only
* modelInfo.* : Information about the Device itself and the supported features, read-only
* sensorInfo.* : Sensor data from the Device like the measured indoor and outdoor temperature

## Todo
* enhance testing: state checks and setState's
* check model info/supported features
* docs for webpage
* VIS widget

## Changelog

### __WORK IN PROGRESS__
* (Apollon77) Add Connection identifier for Admin and Device
* (Apollon77) Optimize unload handling

### 1.3.3 (2021-06-24)
* (Apollon77) Prevent crash case when no temperature was read out (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-D, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-M)

### 1.3.2 (2021-06-05)
* (Apollon77) Handle modes correctly where no temperature or humidity parameters are required

### 1.3.1 (2021-05-14)
* (Apollon77) Prepare for js-controller 3.3

### 1.3.0 (2021-01-14)
* (Apollon77) Prevent warnings in js-controller 3.2
* (Apollon77) Allow overwriting the name in Daikin channel object
* (Apollon77) Require at least js-controller 2.0

### 1.2.0 (2020-12-27)
* add compact mode

### 1.1.3 (2020-11-19)
* add experimental support for lpw parameter
* crash cases prevented (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-7)

### 1.1.2 (2020-08-06)
* crash cases prevented (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-2, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-3, IOBROKER-DAIKIN-4)

### 1.1.1 (2020-08-02)
* better handle case where configuration is missing (Sentry IOBROKER-DAIKIN-1)

### 1.1.0 (2020-07-21)
* Adjust Texts and translate
* create daikin.X ads device object and add one role
* Update dependencies

### 1.0.4 (2019-06-25)
* Daikin library updated, communication error handling optimized

### 1.0.3 (2019-02-xx)
* Daikin library updated, communication errors optimized

### 1.0.2 (2018-04-29)
* Daikin library updated

### 1.0.1 (2018-04-13)
* Fix Admin

### 1.0.0 (2018-01-1x)
* Admin3 readieness
* Support older Daikin-WLAN-Firmwares with special config flag

### 0.2.3 (2017-04-01)
* Add control.lastResult to see if a change was successfull

### 0.2.2
* reduce debug logging

### 0.2.0
* first finalized version

### 0.1.x
* development and first tests

## Disclaimer
**Daikin is a trademark of DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD. I am in no way endorsed by or affiliated with DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD., or any associated subsidiaries, logos or trademarks. This personal project is maintained in spare time.**

## License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Apollon77 <ingo@fischer-ka.de>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
